---
layout: post
title: GOAT Songs
date: May 11, 2021
summary: "my greatest bangerz of all time"
permalink: songs
---

If you follow me on Spotify, you may have noticed that I have a [**GOATS**](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/3ohzzDZTyUjScfyLj7IKDH) playlist containing my favorite songs of all time (not including Christian songs, which may be featured in their own separate blog post later on). It's a rather short list which I intend to expand as I gradually come across more worthy songs over time. My GOAT songs aren't on the list simply because they're pleasant to listen to, but rather each and every one of them represents something more meaningful to me (e.g. they invoke nostalgic memories of a certain time period in my life). In this blog post, I will try to briefly detail why I regard each of these songs so highly and insist that I be buried with them. Please note that as songs are continually added to my Spotify playlist, I will update this blog post accordingly with the additional songs. I should also mention that these songs are not listed in any particular order, as I'm extremely indecisive and such a ranking would constantly change depending on my mood.

## Loser - Big Bang
I think **Loser** is arguably the perfect song. It has this immaculate blend of sad boi lyrics, a catchy chorus, steady vocals and raps, and an emotional bridge, all of which are layered on top of an extremely simple yet refined instrumental. It's definitely Big Bang's best song in my opinion, which is particularly meaningful to me because Big Bang was the group who got me into KPop back in 2012 (I still regard them as my favorite boy group of all time). Even with its somber mood, I know I can literally put this song on at any time because it really does slap that hard. The lyrics are deep, the music video is mature, and I just love how this song came out when I was in middle school in 2015 and has stood the test of time in holding up as a bop to this day.

## Psycho - Red Velvet
I got into Red Velvet last summer (around July 10th, to be exact), and it was all because of **Psycho**. I had never really listened to Red Velvet before outside of their cameo appearance in *Descendants of the Sun*, but as I listened to Psycho for the first time, it legitimately felt like I was experiencing an epiphany. The vocals were so clean and sounded like an angelic choir of sorts exploding in my ears (Wendy and Seulgi especially killed those high notes), and the outfits were so on point with their black and white aesthetic. The chorus was catchy, the rap parts were fire, and I recall always dancing in my seat to the choreography while studying organic chemistry. Thus from that point on, I was converted into an ardent Red Velvet stan, and I then proceeded to consume an unhealthy amount of Red Velvet content over the rest of the summer to maintain my sanity. They effortless pull off so many different concepts and genres, and their songs are so refreshing to listen to compared to other groups who have a formula (ahem...Blackpink). While you're reading this, you should follow my [Red Velvet](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/43ldf1THGGE8stA5AnN9JQ) playlist!

## Hedwig's Theme - John Williams (Harry Potter)
I've watched the Harry Potter movies more times than any other films out there. Although I didn't exactly keep track, I'm fairly certain that I've watched the first one over ten times and the others less so but still a significant number of times. Growing up, we had this portable DVD player which I would always use to watch Harry Potter when I was bored. For some reason, I just loved rewatching the films over and over again rather than exploring something new (I was a weird child). To me, Harry Potter in some ways represents my innocent and unsullied childhood before I was corrupted by the worries and chaos of this world. Hearing the music, especially the iconic **Hedwig's Theme**, brings back so many memories and honestly makes me so happy reminiscing about those simpler times. When I hopefully get into medical school, I actually plan to rewatch all of the Harry Potter movies for the first time since my childhood. I anticipate that I'll quickly start absolutely bawling, because medical school has been on my mind since preschool and Harry Potter will make me even more nostalgic and emotional. I know that sounded super sappy, but I don't care because this is my blog.

## Scape Main - Ian Taylor (RuneScape)
When I say that I grew up in RuneScape as much as I did in the real world, I’m not lying. I spent approximately 1000 hours playing this game from kindergarten to 4th grade (as verified by my account log), which include arguably the most formative years of a child's brain. After I would come home from a long grueling day of elementary school, I would immediately log in to RuneScape with **Scape Main** playing in the background of the log in menu. I really can't begin to express how hearing this theme triggers so many memories for me, because I seriously *grew up* in that game. I won't go into too many details about RuneScape itself, but I learned so much about the real world by playing it and interacting with other (much older) people. I unfortunately quit the game after I died in the wilderness while wearing my extremely expensive set of armor, but I will be forever grateful to how RuneScape raised me and gave me so much joy when I had no friends in elementary school.

## All I Want for Christmas Is You - Mariah Carey
Ah, a timeless holiday classic. Right before we would go home for winter break in high school, the DE class would sing **All I Want for Christmas Is You** with Mr. B during our annual Candy Cane Carols. It was always one of my favorite moments of the school year, as hearing everyone's voices joining together to celebrate the holidays seriously made me love High Tech all that much more. I especially loved the opening of the song, with Mariah really milking the buildup as slowly as possible, and then when the beat starts to pick up with everyone breaking out into hearty cheers and hollers. I maintain that this song is seriously the ultimately karaoke song, and you're actually a monster if you don't join in singing when it comes on.

## Le Festin - Camille and Michael Giacchino (Ratatouille)
**Le Festin** captures the essence of serenity and bliss in my opinion. Hearing it makes me imagine myself in Paris, opening up my window one sunny morning to gaze out into the streets and see the Eiffel Tower off in the distance. The song really calms me down and never fails to put me in a better mood. Ratatouille is also a *banger* of a movie (arguably the best Pixar movie ever), and I love the moral behind it in that, as Anton Ego said best: "Not everyone can be a great artist, but a great artist can come from anywhere." This is a random thought, but if a meteor was headed toward Earth and I only had enough time to listen to one more song, I would probably choose Le Festin. I just find it really amusing and ironic to imagine myself listening to such a peaceful song as I await my imminent death with each passing second. Fun!

## Nice Guys - Chester See, Kevjumba, and Ryan Higa
If you knew what YouTube was during the early 2010s, you've definitely heard **Nice Guys** before (as well as the many other NigaHiga and Chester See original bangers). My friends and I would sing it all the time while sitting at our lunch table in 5th grade, and I'm glad to say that even after all these years, I can still recite all of the lyrics to this song. NigaHiga was actually the YouTuber who got me addicted to YouTube after I watched his [Rustin Hieber video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ad-pxjmlpds), and he's truly one of the OGs who always produces such quality content. Man, I really miss those days.

## Colors - Flow (Code Geass)
Code Geass is the greatest TV show or anime I've ever watched, and its first opening theme, **Colors**, is truly such a masterpiece. The song explodes with its brass and percussion and appropriately introduces you to the wild world ahead of you in Code Geass. I loved everything about the series: its iconic openings and soundtrack, its gripping plot, Lelouch being so big brain, and so much more. I seriously wish I could forget everything about Code Geass so that I could rewatch it. It also holds the prestigious title of best series ending for any TV show or anime ever, which is extremely impressive given the number of trash endings I've watched. 12/10 would recommend.

## Silhouette - Kana-Boon (Naruto)
Fun fact: **Silhouette** was actually my most played song on Spotify in 2020! While taking organic chemistry last summer, I distinctly remember hitting a wall in the first few weeks. I had been looking at molecules pretty much all day every day, and I had quickly begun to lose motivation due to burnout. However, as a form of procrastination and/or taking breaks, I had also been rewatching clips from Naruto about the Akatsuki (those fights are just so cool). One day (specifically June 10th), I was listening to this song given that it was an introduction to part of the Akatsuki arc, and I was simply *enamored*. It seemed to fill me with so life and energy, and I soon realized that listening to Silhouette actually got me so hype for studying. I'm not lying when I say this, but I seriously think that I listened to the song for at least eight hours straight while studying on June 10th after I first put it on. It absolutely *carried* me through the rest of organic chemistry by motivating me to keep grinding, and I'm not sure how I would've survived had I not received such a random injection of energy into my soul.

## Pokémon Theme - Pokémon (Pokémon)
The **Pokémon Theme** is simply such an icon, and I'm not even sure what else I need to say here. This song has been a part of so many children's lives growing up, and I can probably still recite most of its lyrics even right now. The Pokémon franchise means so much to me, having spent more hours playing its games than probably anything else I've ever done in life. From beating Pokémon Yellow as a wee child, to receiving my first Christmas gift in my Nintendo DS and Pokémon Diamond in first grade, to climbing the ladders of Pokémon Showdown, I honestly don't know where I'd be today without the ever-guiding presence of Pokémon. Also, shoutouts to the legendary [Smosh cover](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MkE2lxkw00w) of this song.

## The One That Got Away - Katy Perry
Finally, a normal American pop song! Now, what makes this **The One That Got Away** stand out from the rest, you might ask? Well, as someone who has listened to countless sad boi songs during his lifetime, I must say: this song hits *different*. I'm not exactly sure what makes me so emotional, but hearing the background piano tune and Katy Perry's vocals (I'm such a stan, by the way) really brings tears to my eyes and gets me feeling some type of way. I don't even have to resonate with the lyrics, but the raw emotion which this song captures is truly just so touching. Not to discredit the original song, but I especially love the [Brielle Von Hugel version](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PGF8B3y_p64), which sounds even more sad boi and *really* hits different.

## Hand Covers Bruise - Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross (The Social Network)
*The Social Network* is my favorite movie of all time, and its score just complements the movie so well (it won an Oscars, after all). The first track, **Hand Covers Bruise**, is so simple in containing only several descending piano notes, yet so profound in how the white noise gradually creeps into your brain. One could definitely write an entire essay on this song, so I'll spare you my long-winded thoughts and only briefly try to explain its brilliance here. The song primarily consists of a lone piano, which I see as representative of Mark Zuckerberg as he struggles to connect with the world around him and therefore mainly exists as an isolated individual. Still, the track initially almost conveys some hope and innocence in a way, since Mark begins as this unknowing college student who doesn't fully understand what he has created in Facebook. All the while, however, the track contains this distant white noise which I liken to the distractions and temptations of society that are constantly swirling around Mark. Soon after, this seething undertone begins to creep in, suggesting that there's something to fear here with Facebook. Perhaps it's not just this innocent platform designed to bring people together, but rather something *much* larger, and you can definitely see that play out in the movie in how Mark's relationships with other people fracture over time. I should note that this song also makes for very good study music, especially during late nights.
